OSDOCS-9882-installer2: bug batch 2 for installer 4.16 bugs (#77873)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-16-release-notes.adoc

For information about the unsupported, community-maintained, version of the Operator SDK, see link:https://sdk.operatorframework.io[Operator SDK (Operator Framework)].

> [id="ocp-4-16-deprecation-preserveBootstrapIgnition{context}"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="ocp-4-16-deprecation-preserveBootstrapIgnition_{context}"]
```
need an underscore between text and context tag

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, proxy information that was set in the `install-config.yaml` file was not applied to the bootstrap process. With this release, proxy information is applied to bootstrap ignition data, which is then applied to the bootstrap machine. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-12890[*OCPBUGS-12890*])

> * Previously, the {ibm-power-server-name} platform had no Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) network name, the DHCP resource was not deleted. With this release, a check looks for any DHCP resources with an `ERROR` state and deletes them so that this issue no longer occurs. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-35224[*OCPBUGS-35224*])

Reviewer 2: Seems to be missing a word, maybe:
```suggestion
* Previously, when the {ibm-power-server-name} platform had no Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) network name, the DHCP resource was not deleted. With this release, a check looks for any DHCP resources with an `ERROR` state and deletes them so that this issue no longer occurs. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-35224[*OCPBUGS-35224*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> * Previously, when creating a Container-Native Storage API (CAPI) cluster on installer-provisioned infrastructure for {ibm-power-server-name}, the load balancer would become busy and stall. With this release, you can use the 'AddIPToLoadBalancerPool' command in a `PollUntilContextCancel' loop to restart the load balancer. (link: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-35088[*OCPBUGS-35088*])

Reviewer 2: Container-Native Storage API isn't CAPI, something got mixed up here. Looking at the edit history in the bug, I think it's this:
```suggestion
* Previously, when creating a {ibm-power-server-name} cluster on installer-provisioned infrastructure by using the Cluster API, the load balancer would become busy and stall. With this release, you can use the 'AddIPToLoadBalancerPool' command in a `PollUntilContextCancel' loop to restart the load balancer. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-35088[*OCPBUGS-35088*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> * Previously, an installer-provisioned installation on a bare-metal platform when Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) nodes are enabled caused installation failures. With this release, the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-34985[*OCPBUGS-34985*])

Reviewer 2: First time I have seen this spelled out. I think we can use FIPS and that makes the hyphen less messy
```suggestion
* Previously, an installer-provisioned installation on a bare-metal platform with FIPS-enabled nodes caused installation failures. With this release, the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-34985[*OCPBUGS-34985*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, when creating an install configuration for an installer-provisioned installation on {ibm-power-server-name}, the survey stopped if the administrator did not enter a command on the {oc-first}. The survey stopped because no default region was set in the `install-config` survey. With this release, the issue is resolved.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-34728[*OCPBUGS-34728*])

> * Previously, Solid state drives (SSD) using Serial ATA Solid State Drive (SATA) hardware were identified as removable. The Assisted Installer for {product-title} reported that no eligible disks were found and the installation stopped. With this release, removable disks are eligible for installation. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-34652[*OCPBUGS-34652*])

Reviewer 2: SATA is common enough to not spell out imo. If you do, it's short for "Serial AT Attachment"
```suggestion
* Previously, solid state drives (SSD) using SATA hardware were identified as removable. The Assisted Installer for {product-title} reported that no eligible disks were found and the installation stopped. With this release, removable disks are eligible for installation. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-34652[*OCPBUGS-34652*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, Agent-based installations with dual-stack networking failed due to IPv6 connectivity check failures, even though IPv6 connectivity could be established between nodes. With this release, the issue has been resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-31631[*OCPBUGS-31631*])

> * Previously, due to a programming error, a script created compute server groups with the policy set for control planes. As a consequence, the 'serverGroupPolicy' property of `install-config.yaml` files was ignored for compute groups. With this fix, the server group policy set in the `install-config.yaml` file for compute machine pools is applied at installation in the script flow. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-31050[*OCPBUGS-31050*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, due to a programming error, a script created compute server groups with the policy set for control planes. As a consequence, the `serverGroupPolicy` property of `install-config.yaml` files was ignored for compute groups. With this fix, the server group policy set in the `install-config.yaml` file for compute machine pools is applied at installation in the script flow. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-31050[*OCPBUGS-31050*])
```

> * Previously, when configuring an Agent-based installation that uses the `openshift-baremetal-install` binary, the installer erroneously attempted to verify the libvirt network interfaces. This might cause the following error: “Platform.BareMetal.externalBridge: Invalid value: "baremetal": could not find interface "baremetal"”. With this update, as the Agent-based installation method does not require libvirt, this erroneous validation has been disabled and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-30941[*OCPBUGS-30941*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when configuring an Agent-based installation that uses the `openshift-baremetal-install` binary, the installer erroneously attempted to verify the libvirt network interfaces. This might cause the following error: `Platform.BareMetal.externalBridge: Invalid value: "baremetal": could not find interface "baremetal"`. With this update, as the Agent-based installation method does not require libvirt, this erroneous validation has been disabled and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-30941[*OCPBUGS-30941*])
```

or

```suggestion
* Previously, when configuring an Agent-based installation that uses the `openshift-baremetal-install` binary, the installer erroneously attempted to verify the libvirt network interfaces. This might cause the following error:
+
[source,text]
----
Platform.BareMetal.externalBridge: Invalid value: "baremetal": could not find interface "baremetal"
----
+
With this update, as the Agent-based installation method does not require libvirt, this erroneous validation has been disabled and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-30941[*OCPBUGS-30941*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, {product-title} upgrades for Ansible caused an error as the IPsec configuration was not idempotent. With this release, the issue is resolved. Now, all IPsec configurations for OpenShift Ansible playbooks are idempotent. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-30802[*OCPBUGS-30802*])

* Previously, using network types with dual-stack networking other than Open vSwitch-based software-defined networking (SDN) or Open Virtual Network (OVN) caused a validation error. With this release, the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-30232[*OCPBUGS-30232*])

* Previously, a closed IPv6 port range for `nodePort` services in user-provisioned-infrastructure installations on {rh-openstack} caused traffic through certain node ports to be blocked. With this release, appropriate security group rules have been added to the `security-group.yaml` playbook, resolving the issue. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-30154[*OCPBUGS-30154*])

> * Previously, manifests that were generated by using the command ‘openshift-install agent create cluster-manifests’ command were not directly applied to an {product-titl} cluster because the manifests did not include type data. With this release, type data has been added to the manifests. Administrators can now apply the manifests to initiate a Zero Touch Provisioning (ZTP) installation that uses the same settings as the Agent-based installation. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-29968[*OCPBUGS-29968*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, manifests that were generated by using the command `openshift-install agent create cluster-manifests` command were not directly applied to an {product-title} cluster because the manifests did not include type data. With this release, type data has been added to the manifests. Administrators can now apply the manifests to initiate a Zero Touch Provisioning (ZTP) installation that uses the same settings as the Agent-based installation. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-29968[*OCPBUGS-29968*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> * Previously, a file required for the `aarch64` architecture was renamed by mistake while generating the `aarch64` agent ISO. With this release, the specified file does not get renamed.(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-28827[*OCPBUGS-28827*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, a file required for the `aarch64` architecture was renamed by mistake while generating the `aarch64` agent ISO. With this release, the specified file does not get renamed. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-28827[*OCPBUGS-28827*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, when installing a cluster on {vmw-first}, the installation would fail if an ESXi host was in maintenance mode due to the installation program failing to retrieve version information from the host. With this release, the installation program does not attempt to retrieve version information from ESXi hosts that are in maintenance mode, allowing the installation to proceed. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-27848[*OCPBUGS-27848*])

* Previously, the {ibm-cloud-name} Terraform Plugin incorrectly prevented the use of non-private service endpoints during cluster installation. With this release, the {ibm-cloud-name} Terraform Plugin supports non-private service endpoints during installation. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-24473[*OCPBUGS-24473*])

> * Previously, installing a cluster on {vmw-first} required specifying the full path to the data store. With this release, the installation program accepts full paths and relative paths for the data store. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22410[*OCPBUGS-22410*])

Reviewer 2: (I think they have it as one word, if that's wrong disregard)
```suggestion
* Previously, installing a cluster on {vmw-first} required specifying the full path to the datastore. With this release, the installation program accepts full paths and relative paths for the datastore. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22410[*OCPBUGS-22410*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:
